# Contributing to Intel® GPU Compute Samples
Thanks for your time! Below you can find guidelines for contributing to the project.

## Pull Requests
We are open for all kind of contributions including bug fixes, enhancements and documentation. Before creating a pull request please make sure that:
* Your changes can be successfully built.
* All tests are passing.
* Source code is formatted using [clang-format](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html) with the [defined style](.clang-format).

## Issues and enhancements
All bug reports and feature requests are welcomed and should be reported to the [issue tracker](https://github.com/intel/compute-samples/issues). Even more welcomed are pull requests fixing these issues.

## Testing
Testing instructions can be found in the [README](README.md).

## Directory structure
* `build` - build artifacts. Directory should be created by a user.
* `cmake` - custom CMake scripts.
* `compute_samples` - source code.
* `compute_samples/applications` - source code of the applications.
* `compute_samples/core` - source code of the core modules.
* `docs` - documentation and other resources about the project.
* `mediadata` - directory with media data. It contains merged `internal` and `external` media data. This way applications don't need to know whether a media file is external or internal.
* `mediadata/external` - media files downloaded from external sources. Directory is generated by CMake.
* `mediadata/downloads` - temporary CMake files required for downloading external media data. Directory is generated by CMake.
* `mediadata/internal` - small media files stored in the repository.
* `third_party` - external dependencies. Directory is generated by CMake.
* `third_party/downloads` - temporary CMake files required for downloading third party projects. Directory is generated by CMake.

## How to add a new application?
In order to automatically create an application from a template please use `scripts/generate_application.py` with the following command line `python generate_application.py your_app`.

If you want to manually prepare an application from scratch then please follow the instruction below.

1. Prepare directory structure:
    1. Create directory for `your_app` in `compute_samples/applications`.
    1. Create `include/your_app` directories for public header files in `compute_samples/applications/your_app`.
    1. Create `src` directory for source files and private headers in `compute_samples/applications/your_app`.
    1. Create `test` directory for test files in `compute_samples/applications/your_app`.
    1. All files which are not a source code e.g. video files should be placed in `mediadata/internal` directory or if they are too big they should be downloaded into `mediadata/external` directory.

    Example directory structure for `compute_samples/applications/your_app`:
    ```
    ├── CMakeLists.txt
    ├── include
    │   └── your_app
    │       └── your_app.hpp
    ├── your_app_kernel.cl
    ├── src
    │   └── your_app.cpp
    │   └── main.cpp
    └── test
        ├── main.cpp
        ├── your_app_integration_tests.cpp
        ├── your_app_system_tests.cpp
        └── your_app_unit_tests.cpp
    ```
1. Prepare CMake:
    1. Add subdirectory with `your_app` to the `compute_samples/applications/CMakeLists.txt`.
    1. Create a `CMakeLists.txt` file in `compute_samples/applications/your_app`.
        1. Create `your_app_lib` library by using `add_application_library` function.
        1. Link any required libraries with `target_link_libraries` function.
        1. Create `your_app` binary by using `add_application` function.
        1. Create `your_app_tests` binary by using `add_application_test` function.
        1. Add OpenCL kernels to the library with `add_kernels` function.
        1. Install kernels together with the application and tests by calling `install_kernels` function.
        1. If necessary install any other resources with `install_resources` function.

        Example `CMakeLists.txt`:
        ```CMake
        #
        # Copyright(c) 2018 Intel Corporation
        #
        # Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
        # of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
        # in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
        # to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
        # copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
        # furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
        #
        # The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
        # all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
        #
        # THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
        # IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
        # FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
        # AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
        # LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
        # OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
        # SOFTWARE.
        #

        cmake_minimum_required(VERSION 3.8)
        project(your_app)

        add_application_library(${PROJECT_NAME}
            SOURCE
            "include/your_app/your_app.hpp"
            "src/your_app.cpp"
        )
        target_link_libraries(${PROJECT_NAME}_lib
            PUBLIC
            compute_samples::image
            Boost::program_options
        )
        add_kernels(${PROJECT_NAME}_lib "your_app_kernel.cl")

        add_application(${PROJECT_NAME}
            SOURCE
            "src/main.cpp"
        )
        install_kernels(${PROJECT_NAME} "your_app_kernel.cl")
        install_resources(${PROJECT_NAME} FILES "${MEDIA_DIRECTORY}/png/your_app_media.png")

        add_application_test(${PROJECT_NAME}
            SOURCE
            "test/main.cpp"
            "test/your_app_unit_tests.cpp"
            "test/your_app_integration_tests.cpp"
            "test/your_app_system_tests.cpp"
        )
        install_kernels(${PROJECT_NAME}_tests "your_app_kernel.cl")
        install_resources(${PROJECT_NAME}_tests
            FILES
            "${MEDIA_DIRECTORY}/png/test_input.png"
            "${MEDIA_DIRECTORY}/png/test_reference.png"
        )
        ```
1. Prepare the source code:
    1. Create `YourApplication` class which is derived from `Application` interface available in `application/application.hpp` header.
    1. Implement all methods required by the `Application` interface e.g. `Application::run_implementation`.
    1. Add tests using [Google Test](https://github.com/google/googletest) to the `compute_samples/applications/your_app/test` directory.

## Logging levels
Logging levels are a way of grouping certain types of messages printed by an application. Proper usage of all levels may greatly increase readability of produced logs and maintainability of the application.
That's why we strongly encourage you to get familiar with all available logging levels described below:
* `Fatal` - reserved for critical failures when the application is about to abort.
* `Error` - describes serious issues which should be further investigated. Such situations often occur within a single unit and the application as a whole may handle it gracefully.
* `Warning` - indicates any abnormalities that occurred but were properly handled by the application.
* `Information` - tells users what the application is currently doing; this is the default.
* `Debug` - adds additional information and contexts to the messages.
* `Trace` - the most fine-grained messages, reserved for purely diagnostic purposes.

## Naming conventions
We are using the following naming conventions:
* `Class` - UpperCamelCase - `class MyClass`
* `Class data member` - snake_case_with_suffix - `MyClass::my_class_data_member_`
* `Struct` - UpperCamelCase - `struct MyStruct`
* `Struct data member` - snake_case - `MyStruct::my_struct_data_member`
* `Function` - snake_case - `void my_function()`
* `Variable` - snake_case - `int my_variable`
* `Constant` - snake_case - `const int my_constant`
* `Enum` - snake_case - `enum class my_enum`
* `Enum member` - snake_case - `my_enum::my_enum_member`
* `Namespace` - snake_case - `namespace my_namespace`
* `Macro` - CAPITALIZED_WITH_UNDERSCORES - `#define MY_MACRO`
* `File` - snake_case - `my_file.cpp`
* `Module` - snake_case - `my_module`
* `Test` - UpperCamelCase - `TEST(MyTestCase, MyTest)`
